hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions today
stanford ranks as one of the top
universities in the world in this video
let's take a trip back in time can you
solve these stanford entrance exam
questions from 1892 here's a
trigonometry question express tangent
squared of theta plus cotangent squared
of data in terms of cosine theta here's
an advanced algebra question if a B and
C are in harmonical progression prove B
plus a all over B minus a plus B plus C
all over B minus C is equal to 2 can you
figure it out give these problems a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for a solution so the
trigonometric question is pretty
straight forward tangent of theta is
equal to sine of theta over cosine of
theta and the cotangent of theta is the
reciprocal of that we substitute these
in to tangent squared of theta plus
cotangent squared of theta and now all
we need to do is simplify sine squared
of theta in terms of cosine of theta we
can do this with the identity sine
squared of theta is equal to 1 minus
cosine squared of theta and when we
substitute that in that's about as
simplified as we can get we have 1 minus
cosine squared of theta all over cosine
squared of theta plus cosine squared of
theta all over 1 minus cosine squared of
theta so now let's go to the algebra
question
the key part of this question is what is
a harmonic progression I personally did
not know this and I'll admit I had to
look it up in a harmonic progression the
denominators are in an arithmetic
progression so if the first term is 1
over X the next term is 1 over X plus D
then the next term is 1 over X plus 2 D
then we have 1 over X plus 3 D and so on
each time we're adding this common
difference of D to the denominator so we
might as well say that a is equal to 1
over X B is equal to 1 over X plus D and
C is equal to 1 over X plus 2 D for some
common difference D so we'll take this
and we'll substitute it in and see we
can simplify our expression so we first
do B plus a all over B minus a we get a
kind of complicated fraction but we can
simplify it with the little trick well
multiply the numerator and denominator
by the quantity X plus D times X this
simplifies the numerator to be X plus
the quantity X plus D and the
denominator becomes X minus the quantity
X plus D the numerator becomes 2x plus D
and the denominator becomes a negative D
so we have the opposite of the fraction
2x plus D all over D now let's simplify
B plus C over B minus C well substitute
in our terms of the harmonic progression
and now we'll use the same trick to
simplify well multiply the numerator and
denominator by the quantity X plus D
multiplied by the quantity X plus 2 D
the numerator becomes X plus 2 D plus
the quantity X plus D and the
denominator becomes X plus 2 D minus the
quantity X plus D this simplifies to be
2x plus 3 D all over D so now we need to
add these two terms together so when we
do that we actually cancel out these two
X terms
and then we get to D all over D which
simplifies to be too so we've proven
that this expression simplifies to B -
did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video these math videos
which can be watched for free on YouTube
inspire and build confidence for people
around the world and they already have
over a hundred million views let's share
the beauty of mathematics with your help
we can math at the world a better place
please subscribe for free tea at the
news videos watch and share all of mind
your decisions videos email me a puzzle
presh at manager decisions comm if you
so choose you can check out my books
which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon for exclusive rewards thanks for
watching and thanks for your support